# Group4_FinalProject

--Group--

Members: abisi, nicolaslesimple, kuber7malhotra

Submitting Member: abisi

Dataset: World Flight Network, airline routes throughout airports of the world

---

Where did the data come from?

This data was used by nicolaslesimple & kuber7malhotra for their midterm individual projects.

The selected dataset was taken from the Koblenz Network Collection in the infrastructure section.
Here you can find 3 important links :
   * Link to the Koblenz Network Collection : [Koblenz Network Collection](http://konect.uni-koblenz.de/)
   * Link to the webpage where the dataset can be download : [US Airport Network Dataset](http://konect.uni-koblenz.de/networks/openflights)
   * Link corresponding to the real data source : [Data Source](http://www.openflights.org/data.html)

The chosen dataset is the world airport network updated until June 2014 (with the available data at this time) which is describing the network of airports in the entire world. The dataset comes from OpenFlights project, which is a tool that lets you map your flights around the world, search and filter them in all sorts of interesting ways.The Route data used in this report were maintained by and imported directly from Airline Route Mapper. Airline Route Mapper was a Windows program for exploring route maps of over 550 airlines. Duplicate entry removal and cross-referencing to airport/airline IDs was done by OpenFlights project. Data were collected thanks in majority to scrapping and from DAFIF. DAFIF or the Digital Aeronautical Flight Information File was a comprehensive database of up-to-date aeronautical data, including information on airports, airways, airspaces, navigation data and other facts relevant to flying in the entire world, managed by the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency (NGA) of the United States. 

To make a nicer and more complete analysis, we would need to add external information. In fact, by using the edge list we just know the edges between airports and thus just the raw graph. The city/country information is not available in our graph for now and thus by using data found again in the openflights open source project (Data Source), a matching between node ID and airport ID from the new downloaded dataset will be made. Thanks to that, additional information on the node will be added. All the process will use pandas library. In fact, according to the documentation of the project, the node ID should match perfectly the airport ID.

To be precise, Airport base data was generated by from DAFIF and OurAirports, plus timezone information from EarthTools. All DST information were added manually. Significant revisions and additions were also made by the users of OpenFlights.
OurAirports is a free site where visitors can explore the world's airports, read other people's comments, and leave their own. The site is dedicated to both passengers and pilots. You can create a map of the airports you've visited and share that map with friends. You can find the closest airports to you, and discover the ones that you haven't visited yet. Behind the fun and features, OurAirports exists primarily as a public good. When Australia forced the US government to shut down public access to its Digital Aeronautical Flight Information File (DAFIF) service in 2006, there was no longer a good source of global aviation data. OurAirports started in 2007 primarily to fill that gap: we encourage members to create and maintain data records for airports around the world, and they manage over 40,000 of them. Many web sites, smartphone apps, and other services rely on OurAirport's data, which is all in the Public Domain (no permission required).



---
If the data does not come from someone's midterm project, please provide a brief (2-3 sentence description of the data): 

NA

---
Briefly outline the question you aim to answer using the data (2-3 sentences):

If there is an outbreak of a contagious disease in an airport, how it would spread across the world using the world flight traffic network and which airports should be targeted to impose quarantine(s)?
Combining the world flight traffic network with additional labels of cities/countries and a world map, we want to visualize the spread using SIS/SIR models. Then, using network dynamics notions (targeted attack) we would like to identify hubs to quarantine in order to stop/contain the pandemic(s).  

---
